here's what Google classifies as helpful
content by now you know about Google's
helpful content update it's all about
how Google wants you to create content
for humans and not search engines which
makes sense because no one wants to read
content they're just stuck with keywords
and doesn't make sense
today I wanted to break down seven ways
to make your content more helpful way
number one only write on what you know
over the years I've created websites on
a lot of different topics from medical
to financial to even poker but here's
the issue I'm not an expert in any of
those topics hence none of those
websites did really amazing well sure
some of them rank really high on Google
for the short run but they still didn't
do amazingly well back then Google's
algorithm was much easier but still
people didn't really care as much for my
content because it wasn't amazing it was
just average why because I wasn't an
expert and I truly didn't understand
those topics but most of the content
that I produce on marketing it does well
why as you guess because I know that
topic inside and out I know super well
so I can write extremely well on it
compared to most people
in other words I'm expert in marketing
so I focus my efforts on writing
marketing content way number two Google
wants you to focus your content on a
specific industry or niche as Google
stated in the past they prefer that you
don't create lots of content on
different topics in other words they
want you to focus you could say this is
related to being an expert but it's a
little bit different if your website
focuses on one thing it's much more
likely to be the end all BL website for
that one resource and topic versus sites
like Wikipedia that cover everything but
they don't really go super in depth on
any one topic way number three make sure
your content is executable if someone
reads your content and they don't have a
specific takeaway and they don't know
what to do next
you're failing with your content then
what I like to do is end my articles
with a summary and that summary is of
the learnings and I express that summary
through a conclusion and I make it very
clear with key takeaways I also label my
conclusion with the word conclusion as a
heading so that way it's clear in case
someone wants to just skim your article
way number four continually update your
content things change over time don't
assume that if you write a piece of
content it will keep getting traffic
as things get stale your traffic will go
down it sucks but it's the reality so
you want to keep your content up to date
and fresh and relevant so it provides
users with the best experience possible
when updating your content it's not
about how much you change it's more
about what do you need to change to make
it amazing some people tell me like do I
need to change a paragraph five
paragraphs rewrite the whole article add
images videos what do I need to do Neil
and I'm like compared to your
competition see who's ranking for the
keywords that you want to rank for RDR
ranking for what are they doing better
than you what are they doing worse than
you what can you do to improve your
article that'll give you idea of how
much you should update your content by
or how little you need to update that
piece of content by and that could be
little to nothing and maybe even no
change or that could mean that you have
to rewrite the whole article try to
update your content at least once a year
I like having my team go through our
content at least once a quarter if not
twice a year on the worst absolute case
if we're super busy way number five add
in your secret sauce
what do you know that others don't what
have you experienced that others haven't
by adding in your secret sauce and your
personal experiences you are more likely
to get Social shares backlinks and
generate more traffic if you're just
regurgitating what everyone else is
already saying then there's nothing that
will be unique so in every piece of
content try to add in your personal
experiences
way number six appeal to all different
types of readers some people like
skimming some people love reading some
people love watching videos some people
like listening and some people are
visual Learners in other words use
things like videos infographics images
and anything else that you think can
help improve the experience just look at
this image that breaks down how fast a
cheetah runs yes that Topic's been
beaten to death but the visuals make it
different and easier to really
comprehend how fast a cheetah runs way
number seven do your keyword research
I want you to head over to Uber city
desk and type in a keyword related to
the topic that you're focusing on for
this example I'm using the term digital
marketing in the left-hand navigation I
want you to click on keyword ideas
this is where you can find a lot of
different keywords I want you to click
on the tabs like related questions
preposition this is where you'll find a
lot of keywords and many of them are
based on what people are interested in
integrating some of those Concepts into
your topic will help ensure that your
content is thorough and will help you
rank higher because it will be better
than your competition who didn't take
the time to be thorough now if you need
help with Google's helpful content
update and you are hit by it or even if
you weren't hit by it but you want to be
prepared for the next update check out
my Ad Agency NP digital where we handle
this all four companies and if you have
any questions leave a comment below I'm
here to help if you enjoyed the video
like it share it with other people and
subscribe to the channel